Data and analysis associated with DOI: .

# Impact of training data and DFT functionals on properties of organic solvents using machine-learned force fields
Viktor Svahn^1, Ioan-Bogdan Magdău^2, Samuel P. Niblett^[3,4], Gábor Csányi^5, Kersti Hermansson^1, Jolla Kullgren^1

**Abstract:**
Machine learned inter-atomic potentials (MLIPs) are often used as a means of combining the perfor
mance of classical force fields with the accuracy of electronic structure methods. Unfortunately, the effort of producing such potentials can be considerable, requiring multiple rounds of active learning. One way to circumvent this is te re-use published data that has been shown to produce stable models. This has been studied previously by others but it is not entirely clear if data sets are generally transferable or if different implementations prefer certain kinds of data. For instance, can a data set generated with one MLIP architecture produce stable MLIPs using another? Another important aspect to consider is in the choice of reference level of theory. How will different functionals affect the dynamics of subsequent MD simulations? In this work, we trained MACE-MLIPs on publicly available data sets that consisted of different types of molecular structures. First we considered periodic structures labelled with PBE-D2, PBE-D3 and B97-D3, and found that the functional has a noticeable impact on the density and the diffusivity of mixtures of ethylene carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate. Secondly, when training MACE-MLIPs on cluster data labelled with the ωB97X-D3 functional, we found that subsequent predictions were sensitive to both the random seed and to data selection. Furthermore, all MACE-MLIPs generated here produced 1 ns trajectories, regardless of data set size, demonstrating the impressive stability of MACE-MLIPs. These findings may have important implications for the fine-tuning of foundation models on cluster data.
